---
title: Verification Framework
description:  MLVP Verification Framework.
categories: [Example Projects, Tutorials]
tags: [examples, docs]
weight: 5
draft: true
---

The Python DUT generated by the Picker tool allows us to perform simple verification within the Python environment, including DUT instantiation, signal assignment, clock driving, and other operations. However, in practical verification work, we typically require more advanced verification features, such as coroutine support, coverage collection, and report generation. For this purpose, we provide the **MLVP (Multi-language Verification Platform)** verification framework to offer these advanced verification features.

Currently, the MLVP verification framework supports the following features:

- **Coroutine Support**：The MLVP verification framework provides coroutine support, allowing users to easily write asynchronous verification code.
- **Coverage Collection and Report Generation**：The MLVP verification framework offers coverage collection and report generation functions, enabling users to conveniently collect coverage data and generate coverage reports.
- **Logging**：The MLVP verification framework provides logging functionality, allowing users to easily record information during the verification process.
- **Interfaces** ：The MLVP verification framework allows for the creation of interfaces, enabling users to define a set of interfaces for specific functions. This also decouples the software module implementation from the specific DUT implementation.
- **Verification Utility Modules**： The MLVP verification framework provides several verification utility modules to facilitate writing software modules. Currently included are modules like the "Two-bit Saturation Counter" and the "Pseudo LRU Algorithm".

For detailed instructions on using the MLVP verification framework, please refer to [MLVP](https://github.com/XS-MLVP/mlvp)。
